Stop Signal Anticipation Task Description 

Text which can be used in conjunction with printed examples of the task
Training of subjects should occur well in advance of scanning.

…

The task you are about to perform is called the motor task. There will be a series of training rounds so that you can practice the task.
We will start with the first training, so that you can familiarize yourself with the basic setup of the task. 

< show slide #2 > 

During this task, you will be shown three different lines: A top line (indicate), a middle line and a start line. Next you will see a white bar (indicate) that moves from the start line to the top line. The idea is to stop the bar, by pressing the button, as close to the middle line as possible. It must not reach the top line, else it will count as a failure.

Subject now performs Training 1

< feedback of task performance >


< show slide #4 >

Now we will continue with the second practice series. Sometimes, the bar will not reach the middle line because it stops automatically. In that case, you should not press the button. So, press the button to stop the white bar as close to the middle line as possible, but do not press the button if the bar stops moving. 

Subject now performs Training 2

< feedback of task performance >


< show slide #6 >

The probability that the bars stops moving automatically is indicated by the figure between the middle line and the top line(indicate). If the figure is a ‘o’, then the bar will never stop and will always continue to the top line. This is what happened during the first training.  If it is ‘*’, as you just have seen during the second training, then it will stop occasionally. If it is ‘**’, it will stop more often.  

< show slide #7 >

If the bar reaches the top line, because you did not press the button while you should have, then a red cross will appear on the screen [indicate left trial]. Likewise, if you press the button when you should not have, because the bar stopped moving by itself, then also a red cross will appear on the screen. 

Now you will practice the task as it will be used in the MRI scanner. The figure above the line will change from trial to trial. You will notice that this is a difficult task. That is why you are practicing it right now. In the beginning you probably will make a lot of errors. That is no problem. You will notice that you will become better in performing the task over time.


Subject now performs Training 3

< feedback of task performance >



